In 1997, I was twenty-seven, teaching a writing course at NYU, publishing in a variety of magazines, and earning about fifty-five thousand dollars before taxes. (The teaching job paid only twenty-five hundred dollars for an entire semester, but I was too enamored of the idea of being a college instructor to wonder if I could afford to take it.)
It was around this time that I started having trouble thinking about anything other than how to make a payment on whatever bill was sitting on my desk, most likely weeks overdue, at ant given time. I began getting final disconnection notices from the phone company, letters from the gas company asking “Have you forgotten us?”, and collection calls from Visa. I noticed that despite having followed the urban striver’s guide to success, I was more than seventy-five thousand dollars in the hole.
Several months ago, on a day when the debt anxiety had flared up even more than usual, I found myself fantasizing about moving to Lincoln, Nebraska. I’d been to Lincoln twice on a magazine assignment, met some nice people, and found myself liking it enough to entertain the notion of moving there. But both times I’d discarded the idea the minute the wheels hit the tarmac at LaGuardia. Surely I’d never be able to live without art-movie houses and twenty-four-hour takeout. During my last round of panic, however, I convinced myself that it was a good plan. I can rent an apartment there for three hundred dollars a month. I can rent an entire house, if I want one, for seven hundred dollars. Full-coverage health insurance will cost me seventy-five dollars a month. Apparently, people in Nebraska also listen to NPR, and there are even places to live in Lincoln that have oak floors. Had I known that before, I might have skipped out on this New York thing altogether and spared myself the financial and psychological ordeal. But I’m kind of glad I didn’t know, because I’ve had a very, very good time here. I’m just leaving the party before the cops break it up.
